# CollegeFinancialAssitant
##### To put it simply, our app is split into a number of parts, each working on their own but often sharing data with or relying upon each other. These parts are user profile, the expenses table that keeps track of expenses, the pie chart that shows your percentage of what is spent by category, and the group funding pages.
##### When you start the app, you are taken to the main menu, where you can access these various features and the pie chart is visible. To start, you click the Update Profile button, where you can both input a goal spending amount and select a date to go with it using a date picker. After hitting “Submit,” the app will send back the inputted data and the onActivityResult method will add those values to a sqLiteDatabase. This database will now keep track of the goal amount of money, the goal date, and the amount of money left in your budget. 
##### From here, you move on to the Expense Table. Although this part clearly reuses a lot from the original homeworks 2 and 3, still listing a description, amount, time and date, and a delete button, we made a number of additions to the basic SQLite Database and related functions in order to fit the greater scope of our app. First, we have a tag system that lets you sort your purchases by category. In addition, every time an expense is either added or removed, the amount of money left that is stored in our other sqLiteDatabase is adjusted, using the “spend” method that takes a string value of every new/old expense and does the necessary calculations. The tags and the expense amounts also had to be sent to the pie chart, so that it could accurately display the percentages of how much one spent for each category. 
##### Speaking of the pie chart, as said before, it is simply meant to reflect the percentages of amounts spent on different categories of items. To implement the pie chart, we followed a tutorial online and imported a pie chart package that we found on Github and used the pie chart UI of said package. The data of the pie chart is stored in two arraylists, one consists of float values and the other one consists of string values. The string values are the names of different categories of expenses, and the float values are the percentages spent on these categories. Each time an expense is added and the expense and the category name are returned from a sub-activity, the database would be updated and the pie chart would reflect the update. We were also able to change the colors of the pie chart spinning wheel by changing the rbg values of each piece individually. 
##### And finally, we have the group funding function. For this, we used a Firebase realtime database, which allowed us to host our own server. Once our app was connected to the database, we were able to pull data from the firebase real-time database and use an adapter to pull all the information within the database. Then, using this server, users can add themselves to the database by register an account, log on, and create posts requesting funds which are open to the public. Other users then can contribute various amounts to the cause so that they can help fulfill the requested funds. User authentication for registering and logging in was made by using the firebase user authentication feature, which allowed for secure data. Json trees were used first to create the users and to create the groups. Users then can click onto their own group or other groups that they joined to input money to help contribute to the fund. Firebase is updated and users can see the info updating in real time. 

